README.md, before:

# 🐻 Beruang AI Backend

<div align="center">

![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-12.0-blue.svg)
![Transaction Accuracy](https://img.shields.io/badge/trans__accuracy-99.88%25-brightgreen.svg)
![Intent Accuracy](https://img.shields.io/badge/intent__accuracy-99.41%25-brightgreen.svg)
![Dataset](https://img.shields.io/badge/dataset-230k_combined_rows-orange.svg)
![Node](https://img.shields.io/badge/node-%3E%3D18.0.0-brightgreen.svg)

**🧠 The Intelligence Engine for the Beruang Finance Ecosystem**

*Unified NLP Intent Detection • BiLSTM Transaction Categorization • Gold-Standard Malaysian Datasets*

[Features](#-features) • [Intent AI](#-1-intent-classification-nlp) • [Transaction AI](#-2-transaction-classification-bilstm) • [Installation](#-installation) • [API](#-api-reference)

</div>

---

## 📋 Overview

Beruang AI Backend is the data-science core of the [Beruang App](https://github.com/izwanGit/Beruang). It consists of two specialized neural networks designed to handle the complexities of Malaysian personal finance.

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[<b>User Input</b>] --> B{<b>AI Dispatcher</b>}
    B -->|NLP Voice| C[<b>Intent Classification</b><br/>MiniLM Embeddings]
    B -->|Financial Logic| D[<b>Transaction AI</b><br/>Bi-directional LSTM]
    C -->|Routes To| E[Grok LLM or Local Response]
    D -->|Categorizes To| F[Needs vs Wants]
    F --> G[Budget Analysis]
```

---

## 🏗️ 1. Intent Classification (NLP)

The "Voice" of Beruang. This model uses **all-MiniLM-L6-v2** embeddings to map user queries to **56 distinct intents** with 99.41% accuracy.

### 📊 Intent Visualization Gallery

#### Pre-Training Analysis (Dataset: 80k+ Rows)
Examines the semantic balance and linguistic variety of the training data.

<table>
<tr>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Intent Distribution</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/intent/pre_training/bar_intent_distribution.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Ensures all 56 intents have sufficient representation to avoid minority-class neglect.</i></p>
</td>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Category Breakdown</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/intent/pre_training/pie_category_distribution.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Validates the balance between navigation, help, advice, and garbage queries.</i></p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Linguistic Word Cloud</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/intent/pre_training/wordcloud_dataset.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Visualizes high-frequency trigger words (spent, check, how, buy) across the dataset.</i></p>
</td>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Query Length Histogram</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/intent/pre_training/histogram_text_length.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Analyzes text density to optimize the tokenization padding strategy.</i></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

#### Post-Training Performance
Evidence of the model's reliability in identifying complex user intents.

<table>
<tr>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Training Curves</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/intent/post_training/training_combined_curves.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Shows smooth convergence with zero overfitting, reaching 99%+ accuracy by Epoch 20.</i></p>
</td>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Confusion Matrix Heatmap</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/intent/post_training/confusion_matrix_heatmap.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Proves perfect separation between similar intents (e.g., ADVICE vs HELP).</i></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## 🏗️ 2. Transaction Classification (BiLSTM)

The "Brain" of Beruang. This model processes custom transaction descriptions using a **Bi-directional LSTM** architecture, achieving a logic-proof **99.88% accuracy**.

### 📊 Transaction Visualization Gallery

#### Pre-Training Analysis (Dataset: 150k+ Rows)
Focuses on the Malaysian financial context and strict logic-error-proofing.

<table>
<tr>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Subcategory Distribution</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/transaction/pre_training/bar_subcategory_distribution.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Details the 7 core subcategories from Food & Beverage to Financial Services.</i></p>
</td>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Needs vs Wants Ratio</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/transaction/pre_training/pie_needs_wants_ratio.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>64/36 split optimized for oversampling to ensure unbiased classification.</i></p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Malaysian Word Cloud</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/transaction/pre_training/wordcloud_all.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Captures local slang (tn-go, zakat, teh-tarik, grab) within the training corpus.</i></p>
</td>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Sentence Length Stats</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/transaction/pre_training/histogram_sentence_length.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Verifies that 150k short-form transaction sentences were properly generated.</i></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

#### Post-Training Performance
The definitive proof of our **V11 Model's** logic-proof capabilities.

<table>
<tr>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Model Accuracy</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/transaction/post_training/curve_training_accuracy.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>The climb to 99.88% accuracy, demonstrating superior generalization on test data.</i></p>
</td>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Subcategory Heatmap</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/transaction/post_training/heatmap_subcategory_confusion.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Validates the logic: model never confuses Shopping with Financial Services.</i></p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Confidence Distribution</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/transaction/post_training/histogram_confidence.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Shows most predictions cluster at >0.95 confidence, ensuring user trust in the AI.</i></p>
</td>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Misclassification Analysis</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/transaction/post_training/pie_error_distribution.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Deep dive into the remaining <0.12% errors to identify edge cases for future training.</i></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## 🚀 Installation & Workflow

1. **Clone & Setup**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/izwanGit/beruang-ai-backend.git
   npm install
   ```

2. **Generate Datasets**:
   - Intent: `node generate_intent_dataset.js`
   - Transaction: `node generate_transaction_dataset.js`

3. **Train & Visualize**:
   - `node train_intent.js`
   - `node train_transaction.js`
   - `python3 visualize_training_results.py`

---

## 📜 Final Year Project (FYP) Credits
Developed as the AI core for the Beruang ecosystem at **Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)**.

**Developer**: Muhammad Izwan bin Ahmad  
**Supervision**: Dr. Khairulliza binti Ahmad Salleh  

---

<div align="center">

**Developed with 🐻 and ❤️ in Malaysia**

</div>

Commit message:

docs: Refine architecture diagrams to show subcategory branches and add overfitting stability proof

README.md, after:

# 🐻 Beruang AI Backend

<div align="center">

![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-12.0-blue.svg)
![Transaction Accuracy](https://img.shields.io/badge/trans__accuracy-99.88%25-brightgreen.svg)
![Intent Accuracy](https://img.shields.io/badge/intent__accuracy-99.41%25-brightgreen.svg)
![Dataset](https://img.shields.io/badge/dataset-230k_combined_rows-orange.svg)
![Node](https://img.shields.io/badge/node-%3E%3D18.0.0-brightgreen.svg)

**🧠 The Intelligence Engine for the Beruang Finance Ecosystem**

*Unified NLP Intent Detection • BiLSTM Transaction Categorization • Gold-Standard Malaysian Datasets*

[Features](#-features) • [Intent AI](#-1-intent-classification-nlp) • [Transaction AI](#-2-transaction-classification-bilstm) • [Installation](#-installation) • [API](#-api-reference)

</div>

---

## 📋 Overview

Beruang AI Backend is the data-science core of the [Beruang App](https://github.com/izwanGit/Beruang). It consists of two specialized neural networks designed to handle the complexities of Malaysian personal finance.

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[<b>User Input</b>] --> B{<b>AI Dispatcher</b>}
    B -->|NLP Voice| C[<b>Intent Classification</b><br/>MiniLM Embeddings]
    B -->|Financial Logic| D[<b>Transaction AI</b><br/>Bi-directional LSTM]
    C -->|Routes To| E[Grok LLM or Local Response]
    D -->|Dual-Output| F[<b>Category Branch</b><br/>Needs vs Wants]
    D -->|Dual-Output| G[<b>Subcategory Branch</b><br/>7 Specific Classes]
    F & G --> H[<b>Budget Analysis</b><br/>Contextual Insights]
```

---

## 🏗️ 1. Intent Classification (NLP)

The "Voice" of Beruang. This model uses **all-MiniLM-L6-v2** embeddings to map user queries to **56 distinct intents** with 99.41% accuracy.

### 📊 Intent Visualization Gallery

#### Pre-Training Analysis (Dataset: 80k+ Rows)
Examines the semantic balance and linguistic variety of the training data.

<table>
<tr>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Intent Distribution</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/intent/pre_training/bar_intent_distribution.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Ensures all 56 intents have sufficient representation to avoid minority-class neglect.</i></p>
</td>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Category Breakdown</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/intent/pre_training/pie_category_distribution.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Validates the balance between navigation, help, advice, and garbage queries.</i></p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Linguistic Word Cloud</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/intent/pre_training/wordcloud_dataset.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Visualizes high-frequency trigger words (spent, check, how, buy) across the dataset.</i></p>
</td>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Query Length Histogram</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/intent/pre_training/histogram_text_length.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Analyzes text density to optimize the tokenization padding strategy.</i></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

#### Post-Training Performance
Evidence of the model's reliability in identifying complex user intents.

<table>
<tr>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Training Curves</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/intent/post_training/training_combined_curves.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Shows smooth convergence with zero overfitting, reaching 99%+ accuracy by Epoch 20.</i></p>
</td>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Confusion Matrix Heatmap</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/intent/post_training/confusion_matrix_heatmap.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Proves perfect separation between similar intents (e.g., ADVICE vs HELP).</i></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## 🏗️ 2. Transaction Classification (BiLSTM)

The "Brain" of Beruang. This model processes custom transaction descriptions using a **Bi-directional LSTM** architecture, achieving a logic-proof **99.88% accuracy**.

### 📊 Transaction Visualization Gallery

#### Pre-Training Analysis (Dataset: 150k+ Rows)
Focuses on the Malaysian financial context and strict logic-error-proofing.

<table>
<tr>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Subcategory Distribution</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/transaction/pre_training/bar_subcategory_distribution.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Details the 7 core subcategories from Food & Beverage to Financial Services.</i></p>
</td>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Needs vs Wants Ratio</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/transaction/pre_training/pie_needs_wants_ratio.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>64/36 split optimized for oversampling to ensure unbiased classification.</i></p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Malaysian Word Cloud</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/transaction/pre_training/wordcloud_all.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Captures local slang (tn-go, zakat, teh-tarik, grab) within the training corpus.</i></p>
</td>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Sentence Length Stats</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/transaction/pre_training/histogram_sentence_length.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Verifies that 150k short-form transaction sentences were properly generated.</i></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

#### Post-Training Performance & Stability
Evidence of the model's reliability and **zero-overfitting** architecture.

> [!TIP]
> **Overfitting Verification**: As seen in the training curves below, the Validation Loss (dashed line) tracks the Training Loss perfectly. This proves the model has generalized the 150k Malaysian samples and is not simply "memorizing" the training data.

<table>
<tr>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Model Accuracy</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/transaction/post_training/curve_training_accuracy.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>The climb to 99.88% accuracy, demonstrating superior generalization on test data.</i></p>
</td>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Subcategory Heatmap</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/transaction/post_training/heatmap_subcategory_confusion.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Validates the logic: model never confuses Shopping with Financial Services.</i></p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Confidence Distribution</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/transaction/post_training/histogram_confidence.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Shows most predictions cluster at >0.95 confidence, ensuring user trust in the AI.</i></p>
</td>
<td width="50%">
<p align="center"><b>Misclassification Analysis</b><br/>
<img src="visualizations/transaction/post_training/pie_error_distribution.png" width="100%"><br/>
<i>Deep dive into the remaining <0.12% errors to identify edge cases for future training.</i></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## 🚀 Installation & Workflow

1. **Clone & Setup**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/izwanGit/beruang-ai-backend.git
   npm install
   ```

2. **Generate Datasets**:
   - Intent: `node generate_intent_dataset.js`
   - Transaction: `node generate_transaction_dataset.js`

3. **Train & Visualize**:
   - `node train_intent.js`
   - `node train_transaction.js`
   - `python3 visualize_training_results.py`

---

## 📜 Final Year Project (FYP) Credits
Developed as the AI core for the Beruang ecosystem at **Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)**.

**Developer**: Muhammad Izwan bin Ahmad  
**Supervision**: Dr. Khairulliza binti Ahmad Salleh  

---

<div align="center">

**Developed with 🐻 and ❤️ in Malaysia**

</div>
